- In our previous video,
we added methods inside the generic class.
Let's also do one more bit of this demo
where we add a method outside the generic class box.
So I have the steps to mention on this slide
let's execute them, one by one.
Let's first add a utility class called BoxUtils.
So let's head back to the IDE
and on the same package, I will create a class.
Let's call it BoxUtils.
The next step will be add a generic method
getCountOfItems.
So the method that I'm going to add in the utility class
is to get a count of items from any box
that we want to measure the count on.
So let's go back to the IDE and here let's add a method,
public and they should return int.
Let's name the method getCountOfItems
and they should have some parameter and then the definition.
So now let's try to understand this.
We are trying to get the count of items from the box.
So this method should be able to access the type parameter
of the box generic type, which in our case is T.
Now in order that the method is able
to access that type parameter,
you will have to explicitly define that type parameter
on the method level.
Why is that so?
Because we are in a utility class of BoxUtils
and BoxUtils does not have the type parameter T
mentioned on the class level.
So now, the first thing that we have to do is,
we have to mention this generics type parameter
on the method level like that.
The moment you have T then getCountOfItems knows
or is aware that there is a type parameter T
that it is going to access.
Only then you will be able to define a parameter
to this method which is of the box T like that.
And then what we have to do is,
we just have to return the count.
So that'll be return box.getItems.size. That is all.
So this is how you write a generic matter
outside the generic class.
Unless and until you specify this generic declaration
on the method level, your get count of items method
will not be able to access the type parameter.
And this is merely done
because you are inside the generic class now.
You're outside.
So when you're outside the class
you'll have to define this explicitly.
Once you do this, only then you'll be able to define
any parameters with respect to that generic type.
Please also note, that this T in angle brackets
that we mentioned, is not the return type.
The return type of this method is int.
It's account that we are returning from this method.
Now, the third step is to test this program
for the getCountOfItems method.
So let's go ahead to our test box generics class again
and let's come down and say, System out
let's put a string, Book count, simple
and let's call the BoxUtils class.
And if you see,
you'll still are not able to see the method
that is because I'm trying to access the method
on the class level.
So we have forgotten to do one thing, that is,
we need to declare this method static.
Now let's go back to the test class,
and now we should be able to access
the getCountOfItems method.
And to this I'm going to now pass bookBox.
So the box of T in this invocation
is going to be the box of book that we created
on line number 5.
Similarly, I can come down
and I can print the count of the fruitBox as well.
So I'll say Fruit count and call the same BoxUtils method
and this time, the box of T parameter that I'm going to pass
is going to be the fruitBox, which is this.
So we are good.
Now let's go ahead and run this
and look at the output on the console.
There we go.
You have the Book count 2 and you have the Fruit count 2.
So that's how you add a method outside a generic class.
Now just one small point here,
I wanted to show a demo where I would be able to teach you
how to add a method outside the generic class.
GetCountOfItems method could have easily gone
inside the box generic type itself.